LDAP automatic user provisioning (#20033)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v25.2/ldap-authentication.md

> toc: true

Reviewer: This page is broken on [preview](https://deploy-preview-20033--cockroachdb-docs.netlify.app/docs/v25.2/ldap-authentication). Not sure why but often has to do with a misformatted tag:

<img width="980" height="585" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ddc3f01a-9fdb-4bfc-85ae-0d827523987a" />

---

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> CockroachDB supports authentication and authorization using LDAP-compatible directory services, such as Active Directory and Microsoft Entra ID. This allows you to integrate your cluster with your organization's existing identity infrastructure for centralized user management and access control.

Reviewer: Might be useful to spell out "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol" and link https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_Directory_Access_Protocol in the intro, unless you feel everyone knows it already.

  - If a matching record was found, the cluster attempts to verify the user's identity through another LDAP request, this time using the credentials (username and password) provided by that user.
  - If this LDAP bind operation succeeds, the user is authenticated to the CockroachDB cluster.
1. Authorize the user (optional)

>   - If [LDAP authorization]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ldap-authorization.md %}) is also enabled, an additional request is sent to retrieve the groups to which the user is assigned, using configurable criteria.

Reviewer: Is this right?

```suggestion
  - If [LDAP authorization]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ldap-authorization.md %}) is also enabled, the cluster sends an additional request to retrieve the groups to which the user is assigned, using configurable criteria.
```

  - If group memberships are found, any existing CockroachDB roles that match these group names are assigned to the user.

These requests use a node's existing connection to the LDAP server, if one is open. Otherwise, the node establishes a new connection. The connection remains open for handling additional LDAP requests until it is closed by the LDAP server, based on its timeout setting.

Because CockroachDB maintains no more than one LDAP connection per node, for a cluster with `n` nodes, you can expect up to `n` concurrent LDAP connections.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> LDAP authentication cannot be used for the `root` user or other [reserved identities]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#reserved-identities). Credentials for `root` must be managed separately using password authentication to ensure continuous administrative access regardless of LDAP availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LDAP authentication cannot be used for the `root` user or other [reserved identities]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#reserved-identities). You must manage credentials for `root` separately using password authentication to ensure continuous administrative access regardless of LDAP availability.
```

### Step 4: Sync database users

> Before LDAP authentication can be used for a user, the username must be created directly in CockroachDB. You will need to establish an automated method for keeping users in sync with the directory server, creating and dropping them as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before LDAP authentication can be enabled for a user, you must create the username directly in CockroachDB. You will need to establish an automated method for keeping users in sync with the directory server, creating and dropping them as needed.
```
